Add a library_design.md file documenting the core Python data structures and their relationship (#10817)
rapidsai/cudf: docs/cudf/source/developer_guide/ARCHITECTURE.md

> # cuDF Architecture

Reviewer: Is "ARCHITECTURE.md" a standard thing in other projects? My first thought is that this was going to be a document related to supported GPU architectures, so that tells me it's a bit of an overloaded term.

How about `LIBRARY_DESIGN.md`?

Reviewer 2: `ARCHITECTURE.md` is a fairly popular name for this kind of document - it's not as standardized as names like `CONTRIBUTING.md`, but there are a nontrivial number of projects that use `ARCHITECTURE.md` for this purpose.

https://matklad.github.io/2021/02/06/ARCHITECTURE.md.html
https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-analyzer/blob/master/docs/dev/architecture.md

Author: Yeah, while I see your argument about the term being overloaded I'd say [this is a popular enough naming convention to stick with](https://github.com/search?p=1&q=filename%3Aarchitecture.md&type=Code) (fair warning: this search finds enough examples that once I started clicking through them to see if they were real (and they mostly are) I got rate limited by Github :joy:)

Reviewer 3: Could we use lowercase though? The examples in the search seem to use both. Someone looking to add a new `.md` file might wonder whether to use `lowercase.md` or `UPPERCASE.md`.

Reviewer 3: I'm +1 to `library-design.md` FWIW but ultimately leave it to Vyas.

Reviewer 2: I do like the name `library-design.md` more, especially since this is not a top-level document in the repo but instead exists as part of the Python cuDF docs.

Author: I don't feel that strongly about this. I'll take 3 votes for `library_design.md` as good enough to switch.

3. The Cython layer: The wrappers around the fast C++ `libcudf` library.

In this document we will review each of these layers, their roles, and the requisite tradeoffs.

## The Frame layer

Broadly speaking, the `Frame` layer is composed of two types of objects: indexed tables and indexes.
The mapping between these types and cuDF data types is not obvious, however.
To ease our way into understanding why, let's first take a birds-eye view of the Frame layer.

All classes in this layer inherit from one or both of the two base classes in this layer: `Frame` and `BaseIndex`.
The eponymous `Frame` class is, at its core, a simple tabular data structure composed of columnar data.
Some types of `Frame` contain indexes; in particular, any `DataFrame` or `Series` has an index.
However, as a general container of columnar data, `Frame` is also the parent class for most types of index.

`BaseIndex`, meanwhile, is essentially an abstract base class encoding the `pandas.Index` API.
Various subclasses of `BaseIndex` implement this API in specific ways depending on their underlying data.

> Most indexes consist of a single column (of e.g. strings), but `RangeIndex` and `MultiIndex` are clear exceptions.

Author: I see what you're going for. I think your rewording misses the key detail though, which is that `RangeIndex` doesn't actually materialize the column, while `MultiIndex` materializes many columns. I'll reword with the inversion that you suggest.

As a result, using a single abstract parent provides the flexibility we need to support these different types.

With those preliminaries out of the way, let's dive in a little bit deeper.

### Frames

`Frame` exposes numerous methods common to all pandas data structures.
Any methods that have the same API across `Series`, `DataFrame`, and `Index` should be defined here.
Additionally any (internal) methods that could be used to share code between those classes may also be defined here.

The primary internal subclass of `Frame` is `IndexedFrame`, a `Frame` with an index.
An `IndexedFrame` represents the first type of object mentioned above: indexed tables.
In particular, `IndexedFrame` is the parent class for `DataFrame` and `Series`.
Any pandas methods that are defined for those two classes should be defined here.

The second internal subclass of `Frame` is `SingleColumnFrame`.
As you may surmise, it is a `Frame` with a single column of data.

> This class is the parent for most types of indexes as well as `Series` (note the diamond inheritance pattern here).

Reviewer 2: Should we say "a parent class" instead of "the parent class"? (Same above for `IndexedFrame`.) The diamond is definitely important to point out.
```suggestion
This class is a parent for most types of indexes as well as `Series` (note the diamond inheritance pattern here).
```

While `IndexedFrame` provides a large amount of functionality, this class is much simpler.
It adds some simple APIs provided by all 1D pandas objects, and it flattens outputs where needed.

### Indexes

While we've highlighted some exceptional cases of Indexes before, let's start with the base cases here first.
`BaseIndex` is generally intended to be a true abstract class, i.e. it should contain no implementations.
Functions may be implemented in `BaseIndex` if they are truly identical for all types of indexes.

> However, currently most such implementations are not applicable to all subclasses and will be eventaully be removed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, currently most such implementations are not applicable to all subclasses and will be eventually be removed.
```

Almost all indexes are subclasses of `GenericIndex`, a single-columned index with the class hierarchy:

> `Frame`->`SingleColumnFrame`->`GenericIndex`<-`BaseIndex`.

Reviewer 2: Can this be written as pseudo-Python? The current hierarchy description is ambiguous wrt the MRO (C3 linearization). Which parent class of `GenericIndex` is first?
```python
class Frame: pass
class SingleColumnFrame(Frame): pass
class BaseIndex: pass
class GenericIndex(SingleColumnFrame, BaseIndex): pass
```

Author: I'm happy to rewrite this to just show the last line that you included, but mostly because I think that's probably more readable than what I wrote. I think the exact MRO is too detailed a piece of information to discuss in this document.

Integer, float, or string indexes are all composed of a single column of data.
Most `GenericIndex` methods are inherited from `Frame`, saving us the trouble of rewriting them.

We now consider the three main exceptions to this model:

- A `RangeIndex` is not backed by a column of data, so it inherits directly from `BaseIndex` alone.
  Wherever possible, its methods have special implementations designed to avoid materializing columns.
  Where such an implementation is infeasible, we fall back to converting it to an integer index first instead.
- A `MultiIndex` is backed by _multiple_ columns of data.

>   Therefore, its inheritance hierarchy looks like `Frame`->``MultiIndex`<-`BaseIndex`.

Reviewer 2: Extra backtick needs to be removed - and same question as above about using pseudo-Python to indicate the MRO.
```suggestion
  Therefore, its inheritance hierarchy looks like `Frame`->`MultiIndex`<-`BaseIndex`.
```

  Some of its more `Frame`-like methods may be inherited,
  but many others must be reimplemented since in many cases a `MultiIndex` is not expected to behave like a `Frame`.
- Just like in pandas, `Index` itself can never be instantiated.
  `pandas.Index` is the parent class for indexes,
  but its constructor returns an appropriate subclass depending on the input data type and shape.
  Unfortunately, mimicking this behavior requires overriding `__new__`,
  which in turn makes shared intialization across inheritance trees much more cumbersome to manage.

>   To reenable sharing constructor logic across different index classes,

Reviewer 2: I typically write "re-enable" but we can avoid the weirdness by just writing "enable."
```suggestion
  To enable sharing constructor logic across different index classes,
```

  we instead define `BaseIndex` as the parent class of all indexes.
  `Index` inherits from `BaseIndex`, but it masquerades as a `BaseIndex` to match pandas.
  This class should contain no implementations since it is simply a factory for other indexes.

## The Column layer

The next layer in the cuDF stack is the Column layer.
This layer forms the glue between pandas-like APIs and our underlying data layouts.
Under the hood, cuDF is built around the [Apache Arrow Format](https://arrow.apache.org).
This data format is both conducive to high-performance algorithms and suitable for data interchange between libraries.

The principal objects in the Column layer are the `ColumnAccessor` and the various `Column` classes.
The `Column` is cuDF's core data structure and is modeled after the
[Apache Arrow Columnar Format](https://arrow.apache.org/docs/format/Columnar.html).

> A `ColumnAccessor` is a dictionary-like interface to a sequence of `Columns`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A `ColumnAccessor` is a dictionary-like interface to a sequence of `Column`s.
```

A `Frame` owns a `ColumnAccessor`, and most of its operations are implemented as loops over that object's `Column`s.

### ColumnAccessor

The primary purpose of the `ColumnAccessor` is to encapsulate pandas column selection semantics.
Columns may be selected or inserted by index or by label, and label-based selections are as flexible as pandas is.
For instance, Columns may be selected hierarchically (using tuples) or via wildcards.
`ColumnAccessors` also support the `MultiIndex` columns that can result from operations like groupbys.

### Columns

The parent `Column` class is implemented in Cython to support interchange with C++ (more on that later).

> However, the bulk of the `Column`'s functionality is embodied by the `ColumnBase` subclass.

Reviewer 2: Is it weird that `ColumnBase` derives from `Column`, while `Index` derives from `BaseIndex`? Two reasons:
- The "base" isn't actually the base class for columns.
- The word "Base" appears in different places in each class name (beginning / end). Should this be `BaseColumn`?

Author: It is weird, but it is correct. The two evolved completely independently. The reasons for the naming choices are esoteric and not really worth discussing in this document. For now, I think we just live with the names being what they are.

Reviewer 2: Yes -- I agree the docs are aligned with the implementation. Should we file an issue to mention this and shoot for a longer-term refactoring towards consistent naming?

Reviewer 3: I tried looking in the CPython codebase for `Base` in a class name and came up with mixed results.

Author: We can file an issue. My hope is that the long term resolution of this will instead involve removing the current inheritance and not having separate `Column` and `ColumnBase` classes.

Author: See #10869.

`ColumnBase` provides many standard methods, while others only make sense for data of a specific type.
As a result, we have various subclasses of `ColumnBase` like `NumericalColumn`, `StringColumn`, and `DatetimeColumn`.
Most dtype-specific decisions should be handled at the level of a specific `Column` subclass.
Each type of `Column` only implements methods supported by that data type.

A `Column` is composed of the following:

- A **data type**, specifying the type of each element.
- A **data buffer** that may store the data for the column elements.
  Some column types do not have a data buffer, instead storing data in the children columns.
- A **mask buffer** whose bits represent the validity (null or not null) of each element.
  Nullability is a core concept in the Arrow data model.
  Columns whose elements are all valid may not have a mask buffer.
  Mask buffers are padded to 64 bytes.

> - A tuple of **children** columns used to represent complex types with non-fixed width elements like strings or lists.

Reviewer 2: Structs also use child columns, but are an exception to the rule of "non-fixed width elements" stated here.
```suggestion
- A tuple of **children** columns used to represent complex types such as non-fixed width elements (strings or lists) or structs containing nested columns.
```

Author: I only intended for this sentence to indicate some examples, not provide too much information as to why. That's the province of the Arrow spec. I've moved one link to the Arrow spec to just below this list to call greater attention to it since the definition of the column is probably the most Arrow-specific part of our library.

- A **size** indicating the number of elements in the column.
- An integer **offset** use to represent the first element of column that is the "slice" of another column.
  The size of the column then gives the extent of the slice rather than the size of the underlying buffer.
  A column that is not a slice has an offset of 0.

As one example, a `NumericalColumn` with 1000 `int32` elements and containing nulls is composed of:

1. A data buffer of size 4000 bytes (sizeof(int32) * 1000)
2. A mask buffer of size 128 bytes (1000/8 padded to a multiple of 64
   bytes)
3. No children columns

As another example, a `StringColumn` backing the Series `['do', 'you', 'have', 'any', 'cheese?']` is composed of:

1. No data buffer
2. No mask buffer as there are no nulls in the Series
3. Two children columns:

>    > - A column of UTF-8 characters

Reviewer 2: I don't think the `>` is necessary here. It creates a block quote, but you really just want to indent these bullets to a second level past the first level of numbers.

   >   `['d', 'o', 'y', 'o', 'u', 'h' ..., '?']`
   > - A column of "offsets" to the characters column (in this case,
   >   `[0, 2, 5, 9, 12, 19]`)

### Data types

cuDF uses [dtypes](https://numpy.org/doc/stable/reference/arrays.dtypes.html) to represent different types of data.
Since efficient GPU algorithms require preexisting knowledge of data layouts,
cuDF does not support the arbitrary `object` dtype, but instead defines a few custom types for common use-cases:

> - `ListDtype`: Lists where each element in every list in a Column is of the same type.
> - `StructDtype`: Dicts where a given key always maps to values of the same type
> - `CategoricalDtype`: Analogous to the pandas categorical dtype except that the categories are stored in device memory.
> - `DecimalDtype`: Fixed-point numbers
> - `IntervalDtype`: Intervals

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `ListDtype`: Lists where each element in every list in a Column is of the same type
- `StructDtype`: Dicts where a given key always maps to values of the same type
- `CategoricalDtype`: Analogous to the pandas categorical dtype except that the categories are stored in device memory
- `DecimalDtype`: Fixed-point numbers
- `IntervalDtype`: Intervals
```

> Note that there is a many-to-one mapping between data type and `Column` class.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that there is a many-to-one mapping between data types and `Column` classes.
```

That job is delegated to the `Buffer` class, which represents a device memory allocation that it _may or may not_ own.
A `Buffer` constructed from a preexisting device memory allocation (such as a CuPy array) will view that memory.
Conversely, a `Buffer` constructed from a host object will allocate new device memory and copy in the data.
cuDF uses the [RMM](https://github.com/rapidsai/rmm) library for allocating device memory.
You can read more about device memory allocation with RMM [here](https://github.com/rapidsai/rmm#devicebuffers).

```{note}
cuDF needs to interoperate with a wide range of Python libraries, many of which allocate device memory.
The ownership behavior described above is designed to minimize new memory allocations for externally-owned memory.
cuDF's use of `libcudf`, however, represents a slight break from the paradigm employed above:
since `libcudf` objects are not Python objects, we need something to manage their lifetimes from within cuDF.

The key is to recognize that `libcudf` offers both owning (e.g. `column`) and non-owning (e.g. `column_view`) objects.
All `libcudf` algorithms accept views as parameters while returning (new) owning objects.

> When calling `libcudf` APIs, cuDF Python construct views from cudf `Buffers`.

Reviewer 2: It's a little awkward to use "cuDF" and "cudf" in the same sentence. This might arise from the desire to distinguish the package from the import name, but maybe there's a better way to write this. Beyond this PR, we need to adopt some greater standardization for how we use "cuDF", "cuDF Python", and "cudf" in various contexts. Similar for "rmm" and "RMM."
```suggestion
When calling `libcudf` APIs, cuDF Python constructs views from cudf `Buffers`.
```

Author: I agree, I realized this halfway through writing this document and made a half-hearted attempt at cleaning that up. I'll go back through and change this to be consistent about using "cuDF" everywhere that is not in code.

Author: Looks like I did OK, I only saw one other place that was inconsistent. This should be fixed now.

When owning objects are returned, cuDF has an rmm object take ownership of that memory and stores that in a `Buffer`.
The result is that all memory allocated by `libcudf` inside cuDF eventually has ownership transferred to a `Buffer`.
```

## The Cython layer

The lowest level of cuDF is its interaction with `libcudf` via Cython.
Most algorithms in cudf follow a similar pattern.
The `Frame` layer processes inputs and calls a `Column` method.
That method in turn does some additional processing before finally calling a Cython function.
The result is then passed back up through the layers, undergoing postprocessing as needed.

The Cython layer itself is largely composed of two parts: C++ bindings and Cython wrappers.
We use Cython to expose C++ functionality to Python.

> This code essentially consists of copying libcudf header files into new files with a slightly different format.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The C++ binding code declares the contents of libcudf header files (`.hpp`) in [Cython declaration files (`.pxd`)](https://cython.readthedocs.io/en/latest/src/tutorial/pxd_files.html).
```

Author: I rewrote these few sentences to try and make this section a bit clearer. The sentences around this were all a bit muddy.

Since these bindings are only accessible from Cython, we write Cython wrappers that can be called from pure Python code.

> These wrappers translate cuDF objects into their `libcudf` equivalents and then invoke `libcudf` functions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Cython wrappers (`.pyx`) translate cuDF objects into their `libcudf` equivalents and then invoke `libcudf` functions.
```

Author: See my response to your previous comment.

# cuDF Architecture

> 

Reviewer 3: I think it's worth mentioning very early on that cuDF wraps a  C++ library called `libcudf`, which does most of the actual computation. Also perhaps it's a good idea to point to the libcudf design doc here for folks curious to learn how _it_ works.

We introduce the term `libcudf` below without really saying what exactly it is.

The cuDF library is a GPU-accelerated, [Pandas-like](https://pandas.pydata.org/) DataFrame library.
pandas APIs provide users a greate deal of power and flexibility, and we aim to match that.
As a result, a key design challenge for cuDF is finding the simplest, most performant approaches to mimic pandas APIs.

At a high level, cuDF is structured in three layers, each of which serves a distinct purpose in this regard:

> 1. The Frame layer: The user-facing implementation of pandas-like data structures.

Reviewer 3: Does this definition of the "Frame layer" include other public types like `GroupBy` or our custom data types?

Author: Yes, although I had not intended to mention to many of these classes since I don't think this document needs to be quite that comprehensive. With my current edits I've added some additional information about these though.

2. The Column layer: The core internal data structures used to bridge the gap to our lower-level implementations.
3. The Cython layer: The wrappers around the fast C++ `libcudf` library.

In this document we will review each of these layers, their roles, and the requisite tradeoffs.

> ## The Frame layer

Reviewer 3: It takes a bit of reading in this section before we unravel that the `Frame` layer is a collection of classes, mostly connected by inheritance, that ultimately provides the user-facing `Series`, `DataFrame` and `Index` types.

Should we include something like an (ascii) tree that shows all the types in the Frame layer and their relationship? Or is that too simple a view of things?

Author: I think that's a great idea. I actually considered this but abandoned it as over the top. I'll revisit.

> Broadly speaking, the `Frame` layer is composed of two types of objects: indexed tables and indexes.

Author: I would be fine avoiding this wording, if we could find alternative language to introduce these concepts. What would you suggest? I think the most important thing that needs to come across here is the idea of indexes as a columnar object distinct from other types of "tables". Neither DataFrames (outside of pandas) nor Tables (in the sense of a SQL-like tabular data store in a database) have that concept. It is is unique to pandas (and cuDF) and understanding that is crucial because it underpins a lot of these classes and data structures.

> Broadly speaking, the `Frame` layer is composed of two types of objects: indexed tables and indexes.

Reviewer 3: Then maybe something along these lines:

> The `Frame` layer provides the `Series`, `DataFrame`, and various `Index` classes, which form the core user-facing data structures in cuDF, and offer similar functionality to their Pandas counterparts. It is composed of various classes connected by inheritance:

<insert tree here>

<later parts  of this section  here>

> The mapping between these types and cuDF data types is not obvious, however.

Reviewer 3: Does "data type" here correspond to "dtypes", or the user-facing cuDF types?

If the latter, maybe we can say instead:

```suggestion
The mapping between these types and user-facing types like `Series` and `DataFrame` is not obvious, however.
```

Author: Let me reword a little more thoroughly. I don't think this sentence is conveying what I originally wanted it to.

Author: Actually on a second reading, I think we can get rid of these three sentences entirely. I don't think they are saying anything useful.

> To ease our way into understanding why, let's first take a birds-eye view of the Frame layer.

Reviewer 3: Nit: but understanding why _what_?

For example, `RangeIndex` avoids actually materializing a column, while a `MultiIndex` contains _multiple_ columns.
Most other index classes consist of a single column of a given type, e.g. strings or datetimes.
As a result, using a single abstract parent provides the flexibility we need to support these different types.

With those preliminaries out of the way, let's dive in a little bit deeper.

### Frames

`Frame` exposes numerous methods common to all pandas data structures.
Any methods that have the same API across `Series`, `DataFrame`, and `Index` should be defined here.
Additionally any (internal) methods that could be used to share code between those classes may also be defined here.

The primary internal subclass of `Frame` is `IndexedFrame`, a `Frame` with an index.
An `IndexedFrame` represents the first type of object mentioned above: indexed tables.
In particular, `IndexedFrame` is a parent class for `DataFrame` and `Series`.
Any pandas methods that are defined for those two classes should be defined here.

The second internal subclass of `Frame` is `SingleColumnFrame`.
As you may surmise, it is a `Frame` with a single column of data.

> This class is a parent for most types of indexes as well as `Series` (note the diamond inheritance pattern here).

Author: Agreed. I'll make a UML diagram.

While `IndexedFrame` provides a large amount of functionality, this class is much simpler.
It adds some simple APIs provided by all 1D pandas objects, and it flattens outputs where needed.

### Indexes

While we've highlighted some exceptional cases of Indexes before, let's start with the base cases here first.

> `BaseIndex` is generally intended to be a true abstract class, i.e. it should contain no implementations.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`BaseIndex` is generally intended to be a true abstract class, i.e. it should contain no implementations.
```

Is the definition of a true abstract class that it should not contain any implementations? Or that its (abstract) methods _must_ be overridden?

Reviewer 2: "true abstract class" is not a term I'm familiar with. I'd prefer a simpler sentence overall:
```suggestion
`BaseIndex` is intended to be an abstract class with no implementations.
```

Reviewer 3: I'd be more explicit about the term "abstract" here; maybe something along the lines of:

> `BaseIndex` is intended to behave like an abstract class, i.e., many of its methods simply raise `NotImplementedError` and are intended to be overridden in subclasses.

Author: I'm fine with being explicit. For clarification, my wording here should have said "pure" abstract class, which is more standard terminology.

  Some of its more `Frame`-like methods may be inherited,
  but many others must be reimplemented since in many cases a `MultiIndex` is not expected to behave like a `Frame`.
- Just like in pandas, `Index` itself can never be instantiated.
  `pandas.Index` is the parent class for indexes,
  but its constructor returns an appropriate subclass depending on the input data type and shape.
  Unfortunately, mimicking this behavior requires overriding `__new__`,
  which in turn makes shared initialization across inheritance trees much more cumbersome to manage.
  To enable sharing constructor logic across different index classes,
  we instead define `BaseIndex` as the parent class of all indexes.
  `Index` inherits from `BaseIndex`, but it masquerades as a `BaseIndex` to match pandas.
  This class should contain no implementations since it is simply a factory for other indexes.

## The Column layer

The next layer in the cuDF stack is the Column layer.
This layer forms the glue between pandas-like APIs and our underlying data layouts.
Under the hood, cuDF is built around the [Apache Arrow Format](https://arrow.apache.org).

> This data format is both conducive to high-performance algorithms and suitable for data interchange between libraries.

Reviewer 3: I think this bit fits more naturally in the `### Columns` section.

Author: I've moved this. I also reordered that section a little bit to more clearly delineate the data layout and core associated functionality (the `Column` class) from the more operational aspects of various pandas functionality that is built on top of this data format (the `ColumnBase` class).

The principal objects in the Column layer are the `ColumnAccessor` and the various `Column` classes.
The `Column` is cuDF's core data structure that represents a single column of data of a specific data type.
A `ColumnAccessor` is a dictionary-like interface to a sequence of `Column`s.

> A `Frame` owns a `ColumnAccessor`, and most of its operations are implemented as loops over that object's `Column`s.

Reviewer 3: I don't know if we want to paint this picture as hallmark algorithms like I/O, `join` and `groupby` don't work this way.

Reviewer 2: Yeah, this just sounds inefficient. I forgot to comment on this earlier but it raised an eyebrow for me.

Author: I can remove this sentence, but it's important to highlight the reason that I wrote this because it's an area for improvement (not just in this document, but in our actual design).

We have to distinguish between methods that act on a per-column basis and methods that act on the table as a whole. The former generally _do_ follow this pattern (and it's not inefficient, or at least no more so than any alternative in a pure Python world), while the latter do not. This distinction is also where the Frame/Column layer boundary breaks down, because in practice any APIs that act on the entire table bypass the Column layer and go straight to libcudf. I don't want to try and address this discrepancy in the initial version of this document, but we may need to do so eventually. At that point we may want to come back and make more broad statements characterizing how different kinds of APIs are implemented.

Author: Actually I think there is a more natural way to incorporate this later on in the document.

  Mask buffers are padded to 64 bytes.
- Its **children**, a tuple of columns used to represent complex types such as structs or lists.
- A **size** indicating the number of elements in the column.
- An integer **offset** use to represent the first element of column that is the "slice" of another column.
  The size of the column then gives the extent of the slice rather than the size of the underlying buffer.
  A column that is not a slice has an offset of 0.

More information about these fields can be found in the documentation of the
[Apache Arrow Columnar Format](https://arrow.apache.org/docs/format/Columnar.html),
which is what the cuDF `Column` is based on.

As one example, a `NumericalColumn` with 1000 `int32` elements and containing nulls is composed of:

1. A data buffer of size 4000 bytes (sizeof(int32) * 1000)
2. A mask buffer of size 128 bytes (1000/8 padded to a multiple of 64
   bytes)
3. No children columns

As another example, a `StringColumn` backing the Series `['do', 'you', 'have', 'any', 'cheese?']` is composed of:

1. No data buffer
2. No mask buffer as there are no nulls in the Series
3. Two children columns:

   - A column of UTF-8 characters

>      `['d', 'o', 'y', 'o', 'u', 'h' ..., '?']`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     `['d', 'o', 'y', 'o', 'u', 'h', ..., '?']`
```

   - A column of "offsets" to the characters column (in this case,
     `[0, 2, 5, 9, 12, 19]`)

### Data types

cuDF uses [dtypes](https://numpy.org/doc/stable/reference/arrays.dtypes.html) to represent different types of data.
Since efficient GPU algorithms require preexisting knowledge of data layouts,
cuDF does not support the arbitrary `object` dtype, but instead defines a few custom types for common use-cases:
- `ListDtype`: Lists where each element in every list in a Column is of the same type
- `StructDtype`: Dicts where a given key always maps to values of the same type
- `CategoricalDtype`: Analogous to the pandas categorical dtype except that the categories are stored in device memory
- `DecimalDtype`: Fixed-point numbers
- `IntervalDtype`: Intervals

Note that there is a many-to-one mapping between data types and `Column` classes.
For instance, all numerical types (floats and ints of different widths) are all managed using `NumericalColumn`.

### Buffer

> Although a `Column` represents an Arrow-compliant data structure, it does not directly handle memory mangaement.

Reviewer 3: I don't see the link between the Arrow layout and memory management?

Author: I just wanted to highlight that we decouple these two because they are easily conflated. For someone who isn't familiar with standardized data formats there may be an implicit assumption that an object describing a memory layout also allocates its own memory. Maybe that's unnecessary though.

> That job is delegated to the `Buffer` class, which represents a device memory allocation that it _may or may not_ own.

Reviewer 3: A `Buffer` never "owns" any memory. It always keeps a reference to the owner of the memory in its `_owner` attribute. That `_owner` can be an RMM `DeviceBuffer` (for RAPIDS-managed memory), or something else, like an object exposing `__cuda_array_interface__`.

Author: Good point, I'll reword this to avoid that implication.

cuDF uses the [RMM](https://github.com/rapidsai/rmm) library for allocating device memory.
You can read more about device memory allocation with RMM [here](https://github.com/rapidsai/rmm#devicebuffers).

```{note}
cuDF needs to interoperate with a wide range of Python libraries, many of which allocate device memory.
The ownership behavior described above is designed to minimize new memory allocations for externally-owned memory.
cuDF's use of `libcudf`, however, represents a slight break from the paradigm employed above:
since `libcudf` objects are not Python objects, we need something to manage their lifetimes from within cuDF.

The key is to recognize that `libcudf` offers both owning (e.g. `column`) and non-owning (e.g. `column_view`) objects.
All `libcudf` algorithms accept views as parameters while returning (new) owning objects.
When calling `libcudf` APIs, cuDF Python constructs views from cuDF `Buffers`.
When owning objects are returned, cuDF has an rmm object take ownership of that memory and stores that in a `Buffer`.
The result is that all memory allocated by `libcudf` inside cuDF eventually has ownership transferred to a `Buffer`.

> ```

Reviewer 3: I think this note is a bit misplaced, where it might be easier to read once the reader has an understanding of the Cython and C++ layers.
